# ClientServer-PQCTesting
A simple client-server application, secured with TLS, used as part of my dissertation at the University of Suffolk to test the efficiency and usability of post-quantum cryptographic (PQC) algorithms in a real-world scenario.
## Overview
This project forms part of my dissertation whilst studying at the University of Suffolk. It aims to test the efficiency of post-quantum digital signature algorithms against traditional algorithms in a real-world scenario. In this instance, ML-DSA was chosen as the PQC algorithm to provide digital signatures, and RSA as the traditional algorithm.

The project consists of a simple client-server application, implemented in Java, that provides the transfer of files from the client to the server. The client (`ClientApp`) generates a digital signature based on a given file (using either RSA or ML-DSA), before connecting to the server (`ServerApp`), whereby the file, signature, and public key and transferred. This is then verified by the server to validate that the files were sent by, and were also generated by, the client they were connected to.

The `BenchmarkLogger` class is used throughout the life of the application to capture various metrics, including key sizes, digital signature file sizes, as well as the time taken to execute various parts of the applications core functionality.
## Rationale
The issue of PQC adoption has interested me throughout my studies at university. Whilst I was conducting a review of recent literature, it struck me how little literature existed that explicitly covered how effective, and more importantly how efficient, PQC algorithms were in a real-world scenario, but also using 'modern' technology (i.e. on a traditional computer).
# Building the project
Building and compilation of this project has been tested on Windows 11 as this was the native OS for project development. Linux/macOS instructions to follow at a later date.
## Pre-requisites
To compile and build the program you need a Java Development Kit (JDK) and Apache Maven. The following were used for development:
* Java (JDK 23.0.2)
* Apache Maven (3.9.9)
## Running the program
The program provides support for the following digital signature algorithms, with varying parameter specs:
* RSA
* ML-DSA (Dilithium):
  * ML-DSA-44,
  * ML-DSA-65,
  * ML-DSA-87  

The algorithm you wish to test must be parsed as a system argument when executing the programs from the command line. For the above supported algorithms, the following examples are accepted by the program (not case-sensitive):
* rsa
* dilithium2
* dilithium3
* dilithium5  
## Configuration of client-server certificates
In the case of this project, client trust store and server key stores must be configured and stored in the root directory of the project. Ensure you are in the root directory (after cloning the project) and execute the following commands:  
````
keytool -genkeypair -alias server -keyalg RSA -keystore server_keystore.p12 -storepass password -storetype PKCS12
````  
````
keytool -export -alias server -keystore server_keystore.p12 -storepass password -file server_cert.pem

````  
````
keytool -import -alias server -file server_cert.pem -keystore client_truststore.p12 -storepass password -storetype PKCS12

````  
(N.B. in the above examples, `password` resides as a placeholder that can be replaced with whatever you require. It is recommended to leave the above commands as they are assuming you are using this for testing purposes and ***not*** implementing this code in a production environment).
* If you would like to change the `-storepass` password to something unique, you must also amend the code in the `ConnectionManager` class - specifically the `startClientConnection` and `startServerConnection` methods - to ensure the password used for certificate generation is the same as what is in the code.
## Walkthrough
* First clone the repository:  
````
git clone https://github.com/ed-burrows/ClientServer-PQCTesting
````
* Next, navigate to the root of the new local repository:  
````
cd C:\User\Downloads\ClientServer-PQCTesting
````
* Run Maven compile:  
````
mvn compile
````
The programs can now be run from the command line using the following commands (N.B. the ServerApp **must** be executed prior to running the ClientApp. If this execution order isn't adhered to, the client will fail to connect and program execution will end immediately).
* ServerApp

````
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="org.example.ServerApp"
````

* ClientApp
  - When running ClientApp, ensure the below command is changed such that `algorithmName` represents the name of your chosen algorithm (selected from the supported algorithms above), and `serverIPAddress` is the IPv4 address of the computer ServerApp is hosted on.  
````
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="org.example.ClientApp" -Dexec.args="algorithmName serverIPAddress"
````